README.md, before:

# BitcoinJS (bitcoinjs-lib)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib)
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bitcoinjs-lib.svg)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/bitcoinjs-lib)

[![js-standard-style](https://cdn.rawgit.com/feross/standard/master/badge.svg)](https://github.com/feross/standard)

A javascript Bitcoin library for node.js and browsers.

Released under the terms of the [MIT LICENSE](LICENSE).

## Should I use this in production?
If you are thinking of using the *master* branch of this library in production, **stop**.
Master is not stable; it is our development branch, and [only tagged releases may be classified as stable](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/tags).


## Can I trust this code?
> Don't trust. Verify.

We recommend every user of this library and the [bitcoinjs](https://github.com/bitcoinjs) ecosystem to audit and verify any underlying code for its validity and suitability.

Mistakes and bugs happen,  but with your help in resolving and reporting [issues](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/issues),  together we can produce open source software library that is:

- Easy to audit and verify,
- Tested, with test coverage >90%,
- Advanced and feature rich,
- Standardized, using [standard](http://github.com/standard/standard) and Node `Buffer`'s throughout, and
- Friendly, with a strong and helpful community, ready to answer questions.


## Installation
``` bash
npm install bitcoinjs-lib
```

## Setup
### Node.js
``` javascript
var bitcoin = require('bitcoinjs-lib')
```

### Browser
If you're familiar with how to use browserify, ignore this and proceed normally.
These steps are advisory only,  and may not be suitable for your application.

[Browserify](https://github.com/substack/node-browserify) is assumed to be installed for these steps.

For your project, create an `index.js` file
``` javascript
let bitcoin = require('bitcoinjs-lib')

// your code here
function myFunction () {
	return bitcoin.ECPair.makeRandom().toWIF()
}

module.exports = {
	myFunction
}
```

Now, to compile for the browser:
``` bash
browserify index.js --standalone foo > app.js
```

You can now put `<script src="app.js" />` in your web page,  using `foo.myFunction` to create a new Bitcoin private key.

**NOTE**: If you uglify the javascript, you must exclude the following variable names from being mangled: `BigInteger`, `ECPair`, `Point`.
This is because of the function-name-duck-typing used in [typeforce](https://github.com/dcousens/typeforce).

Example:
``` bash
uglifyjs ... --mangle reserved=['BigInteger','ECPair','Point']
```

**NOTE**: This library tracks Node LTS features,  if you need strict ES5,  use [`--transform babelify`](https://github.com/babel/babelify) in conjunction with your `browserify` step (using an [`es2015`](http://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-es2015/) preset).

**NOTE**: If you expect this library to run on an iOS 10 device, ensure that you are using [buffer@5.0.5](https://github.com/feross/buffer/pull/155) or greater.


### Typescript or VSCode users
Type declarations for Typescript are available for version `^3.0.0` of the library.
``` bash
npm install @types/bitcoinjs-lib
```

You can now use `bitcoinjs-lib` as a typescript compliant library.

For VSCode (and other editors), users are advised to install the type declarations, as Intellisense uses that information to help you code (autocompletion, static analysis).

Report any typescript related bugs at [@dlebrecht DefinitelyTyped fork](https://github.com/dlebrecht/DefinitelyTyped),  submit PRs to [DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped)


### Flow
Definitions for [Flow typechecker](https://flowtype.org/) are available in flow-typed repository.

[You can either download them directly](https://github.com/flowtype/flow-typed/blob/master/definitions/npm/bitcoinjs-lib_v2.x.x/flow_v0.17.x-/bitcoinjs-lib_v2.x.x.js) from the repo, or with the flow-typed CLI

    # npm install -g flow-typed
    $ flow-typed install -f 0.27 bitcoinjs-lib@2.2.0 # 0.27 for flow version, 2.2.0 for bitcoinjs-lib version

The definitions are complete and up to date with version 2.2.0. The definitions are maintained by [@runn1ng](https://github.com/runn1ng).

## Examples
The below examples are implemented as integration tests, they should be very easy to understand.
Otherwise, pull requests are appreciated.
Some examples interact (via HTTPS) with a 3rd Party Blockchain Provider (3PBP).

- [Generate a random address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L12)
- [Generate an address from a SHA256 hash](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L19)
- [Import an address via WIF](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L29)
- [Generate a 2-of-3 P2SH multisig address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L36)
- [Generate a SegWit address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L50)
- [Generate a SegWit P2SH address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L60)
- [Generate a SegWit 3-of-4 multisig address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L71)
- [Generate a SegWit 2-of-2 P2SH multisig address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L86)
- [Support the retrieval of transactions for an address (3rd party blockchain)](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L100)
- [Generate a Testnet address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L121)
- [Generate a Litecoin address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L131)
- [Create a 1-to-1 Transaction](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L14)
- [Create a 2-to-2 Transaction](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L28)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a typical Transaction](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L46)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction with an OP\_RETURN output](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L88)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction with a 2-of-4 P2SH(multisig) input](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L115)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction with a SegWit P2SH(P2WPKH) input](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L151)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction with a SegWit 3-of-4 P2SH(P2WSH(multisig)) input](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L183)
- [Import a BIP32 testnet xpriv and export to WIF](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L8)
- [Export a BIP32 xpriv, then import it](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L15)
- [Export a BIP32 xpub](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L26)
- [Create a BIP32, bitcoin, account 0, external address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L35)
- [Create a BIP44, bitcoin, account 0, external address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L50)
- [Create a BIP49, bitcoin testnet, account 0, external address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L66)
- [Use BIP39 to generate BIP32 addresses](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L83)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction where Alice can redeem the output after the expiry](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/cltv.js#L37)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction where Alice and Bob can redeem the output at any time](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/cltv.js#L71)
- [Create (but fail to broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction where Alice attempts to redeem before the expiry](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/cltv.js#L104)
- [Recover a private key from duplicate R values](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/crypto.js#L14)
- [Recover a BIP32 parent private key from the parent public key, and a derived, non-hardened child private key](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/crypto.js#L115)
- [Generate a single-key stealth address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L70:)
- [Generate a single-key stealth address (randomly)](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L89:)
- [Recover parent recipient.d, if a derived private key is leaked (and nonce was revealed)](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L105)
- [Generate a dual-key stealth address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L122)
- [Generate a dual-key stealth address (randomly)](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L145)

If you have a use case that you feel could be listed here, please [ask for it](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/issues/new)!


## Projects utilizing BitcoinJS
- [BitAddress](https://www.bitaddress.org)
- [Blockchain.info](https://blockchain.info/wallet)
- [Blocktrail](https://www.blocktrail.com/)
- [Dark Wallet](https://www.darkwallet.is/)
- [DecentralBank](http://decentralbank.com/)
- [Dogechain Wallet](https://dogechain.info)
- [EI8HT Wallet](http://ei8.ht/)
- [GreenAddress](https://greenaddress.it)
- [Helperbit](https://helperbit.com)
- [Melis Wallet](https://melis.io)
- [Robocoin](https://wallet.robocoin.com)
- [Skyhook ATM](http://projectskyhook.com)
- [Coinbase Multisig tool](https://github.com/coinbase/multisig-tool)


## Contributing
See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).


### Running the test suite

``` bash
npm test
npm run-script coverage
```

## Complementing Libraries
- [BIP21](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip21) - A BIP21 compatible URL encoding library
- [BIP38](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip38) - Passphrase-protected private keys
- [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip39) - Mnemonic generation for deterministic keys
- [BIP32-Utils](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip32-utils) - A set of utilities for working with BIP32
- [BIP66](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip66) - Strict DER signature decoding
- [BIP68](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip68) - Relative lock-time encoding library
- [BIP69](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip69) - Lexicographical Indexing of Transaction Inputs and Outputs
- [Base58](https://github.com/cryptocoinjs/bs58) - Base58 encoding/decoding
- [Base58 Check](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bs58check) - Base58 check encoding/decoding
- [Bech32](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bech32) - A BIP173 compliant Bech32 encoding library
- [coinselect](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/coinselect) - A fee-optimizing, transaction input selection module for bitcoinjs-lib.
- [merkle-lib](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/merkle-lib) - A performance conscious library for merkle root and tree calculations.
- [minimaldata](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/minimaldata) - A module to check bitcoin policy: SCRIPT_VERIFY_MINIMALDATA


## Alternatives
- [BCoin](https://github.com/indutny/bcoin)
- [Bitcore](https://github.com/bitpay/bitcore)
- [Cryptocoin](https://github.com/cryptocoinjs/cryptocoin)


## LICENSE [MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

README: add Node LTS version hint, and warning about npm

README.md, after:

# BitcoinJS (bitcoinjs-lib)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib)
[![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bitcoinjs-lib.svg)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/bitcoinjs-lib)

[![js-standard-style](https://cdn.rawgit.com/feross/standard/master/badge.svg)](https://github.com/feross/standard)

A javascript Bitcoin library for node.js and browsers.

Released under the terms of the [MIT LICENSE](LICENSE).

## Should I use this in production?
If you are thinking of using the *master* branch of this library in production, **stop**.
Master is not stable; it is our development branch, and [only tagged releases may be classified as stable](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/tags).


## Can I trust this code?
> Don't trust. Verify.

We recommend every user of this library and the [bitcoinjs](https://github.com/bitcoinjs) ecosystem to audit and verify any underlying code for its validity and suitability.

Mistakes and bugs happen,  but with your help in resolving and reporting [issues](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/issues),  together we can produce open source software that is:

- Easy to audit and verify,
- Tested, with test coverage >95%,
- Advanced and feature rich,
- Standardized, using [standard](http://github.com/standard/standard) and Node `Buffer`'s throughout, and
- Friendly, with a strong and helpful community, ready to answer questions.

## Installation
``` bash
npm install bitcoinjs-lib
```

Typically we support the [Node Maintenance LTS version](https://github.com/nodejs/Release).
If in doubt,  see the [.travis.yml](.travis.yml) for what versions are used by our continuous integration tests.

**WARNING**: We presently don't provide any tooling to verify that the release on `npm` matches GitHub.  As such, you should verify anything downloaded by `npm` against your own verified copy.


## Setup
### Node.js
``` javascript
const bitcoin = require('bitcoinjs-lib')
```

### Browser
If you're familiar with how to use browserify, ignore this and proceed normally.
These steps are advisory only,  and may not be suitable for your application.

[Browserify](https://github.com/substack/node-browserify) is assumed to be installed for these steps.

For your project, create an `index.js` file
``` javascript
let bitcoin = require('bitcoinjs-lib')

// your code here
function myFunction () {
	return bitcoin.ECPair.makeRandom().toWIF()
}

module.exports = {
	myFunction
}
```

Now, to compile for the browser:
``` bash
browserify index.js --standalone foo > app.js
```

You can now put `<script src="app.js" />` in your web page,  using `foo.myFunction` to create a new Bitcoin private key.

**NOTE**: If you uglify the javascript, you must exclude the following variable names from being mangled: `BigInteger`, `ECPair`, `Point`.
This is because of the function-name-duck-typing used in [typeforce](https://github.com/dcousens/typeforce).

Example:
``` bash
uglifyjs ... --mangle reserved=['BigInteger','ECPair','Point']
```

**NOTE**: This library tracks Node LTS features,  if you need strict ES5,  use [`--transform babelify`](https://github.com/babel/babelify) in conjunction with your `browserify` step (using an [`es2015`](http://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-es2015/) preset).

**NOTE**: If you expect this library to run on an iOS 10 device, ensure that you are using [buffer@5.0.5](https://github.com/feross/buffer/pull/155) or greater.


### Typescript or VSCode users
Type declarations for Typescript are available for version `^3.0.0` of the library.
``` bash
npm install @types/bitcoinjs-lib
```

You can now use `bitcoinjs-lib` as a typescript compliant library.

For VSCode (and other editors), users are advised to install the type declarations, as Intellisense uses that information to help you code (autocompletion, static analysis).

Report any typescript related bugs at [@dlebrecht DefinitelyTyped fork](https://github.com/dlebrecht/DefinitelyTyped),  submit PRs to [DefinitelyTyped](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped)


### Flow
Definitions for [Flow typechecker](https://flowtype.org/) are available in flow-typed repository.

[You can either download them directly](https://github.com/flowtype/flow-typed/blob/master/definitions/npm/bitcoinjs-lib_v2.x.x/flow_v0.17.x-/bitcoinjs-lib_v2.x.x.js) from the repo, or with the flow-typed CLI

    # npm install -g flow-typed
    $ flow-typed install -f 0.27 bitcoinjs-lib@2.2.0 # 0.27 for flow version, 2.2.0 for bitcoinjs-lib version

The definitions are complete and up to date with version 2.2.0. The definitions are maintained by [@runn1ng](https://github.com/runn1ng).

## Examples
The below examples are implemented as integration tests, they should be very easy to understand.
Otherwise, pull requests are appreciated.
Some examples interact (via HTTPS) with a 3rd Party Blockchain Provider (3PBP).

- [Generate a random address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L12)
- [Generate an address from a SHA256 hash](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L19)
- [Import an address via WIF](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L29)
- [Generate a 2-of-3 P2SH multisig address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L36)
- [Generate a SegWit address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L50)
- [Generate a SegWit P2SH address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L60)
- [Generate a SegWit 3-of-4 multisig address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L71)
- [Generate a SegWit 2-of-2 P2SH multisig address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L86)
- [Support the retrieval of transactions for an address (3rd party blockchain)](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L100)
- [Generate a Testnet address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L121)
- [Generate a Litecoin address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/addresses.js#L131)
- [Create a 1-to-1 Transaction](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L14)
- [Create a 2-to-2 Transaction](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L28)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a typical Transaction](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L46)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction with an OP\_RETURN output](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L88)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction with a 2-of-4 P2SH(multisig) input](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L115)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction with a SegWit P2SH(P2WPKH) input](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L151)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction with a SegWit 3-of-4 P2SH(P2WSH(multisig)) input](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/transactions.js#L183)
- [Import a BIP32 testnet xpriv and export to WIF](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L8)
- [Export a BIP32 xpriv, then import it](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L15)
- [Export a BIP32 xpub](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L26)
- [Create a BIP32, bitcoin, account 0, external address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L35)
- [Create a BIP44, bitcoin, account 0, external address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L50)
- [Create a BIP49, bitcoin testnet, account 0, external address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L66)
- [Use BIP39 to generate BIP32 addresses](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/bip32.js#L83)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction where Alice can redeem the output after the expiry](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/cltv.js#L37)
- [Create (and broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction where Alice and Bob can redeem the output at any time](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/cltv.js#L71)
- [Create (but fail to broadcast via 3PBP) a Transaction where Alice attempts to redeem before the expiry](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/cltv.js#L104)
- [Recover a private key from duplicate R values](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/crypto.js#L14)
- [Recover a BIP32 parent private key from the parent public key, and a derived, non-hardened child private key](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/crypto.js#L115)
- [Generate a single-key stealth address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L70:)
- [Generate a single-key stealth address (randomly)](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L89:)
- [Recover parent recipient.d, if a derived private key is leaked (and nonce was revealed)](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L105)
- [Generate a dual-key stealth address](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L122)
- [Generate a dual-key stealth address (randomly)](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/blob/master/test/integration/stealth.js#L145)

If you have a use case that you feel could be listed here, please [ask for it](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bitcoinjs-lib/issues/new)!


## Projects utilizing BitcoinJS
- [BitAddress](https://www.bitaddress.org)
- [Blockchain.info](https://blockchain.info/wallet)
- [Blocktrail](https://www.blocktrail.com/)
- [Dark Wallet](https://www.darkwallet.is/)
- [DecentralBank](http://decentralbank.com/)
- [Dogechain Wallet](https://dogechain.info)
- [EI8HT Wallet](http://ei8.ht/)
- [GreenAddress](https://greenaddress.it)
- [Helperbit](https://helperbit.com)
- [Melis Wallet](https://melis.io)
- [Robocoin](https://wallet.robocoin.com)
- [Skyhook ATM](http://projectskyhook.com)
- [Coinbase Multisig tool](https://github.com/coinbase/multisig-tool)


## Contributing
See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).


### Running the test suite

``` bash
npm test
npm run-script coverage
```

## Complementing Libraries
- [BIP21](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip21) - A BIP21 compatible URL encoding library
- [BIP38](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip38) - Passphrase-protected private keys
- [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip39) - Mnemonic generation for deterministic keys
- [BIP32-Utils](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip32-utils) - A set of utilities for working with BIP32
- [BIP66](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip66) - Strict DER signature decoding
- [BIP68](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip68) - Relative lock-time encoding library
- [BIP69](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip69) - Lexicographical Indexing of Transaction Inputs and Outputs
- [Base58](https://github.com/cryptocoinjs/bs58) - Base58 encoding/decoding
- [Base58 Check](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bs58check) - Base58 check encoding/decoding
- [Bech32](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bech32) - A BIP173 compliant Bech32 encoding library
- [coinselect](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/coinselect) - A fee-optimizing, transaction input selection module for bitcoinjs-lib.
- [merkle-lib](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/merkle-lib) - A performance conscious library for merkle root and tree calculations.
- [minimaldata](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/minimaldata) - A module to check bitcoin policy: SCRIPT_VERIFY_MINIMALDATA


## Alternatives
- [BCoin](https://github.com/indutny/bcoin)
- [Bitcore](https://github.com/bitpay/bitcore)
- [Cryptocoin](https://github.com/cryptocoinjs/cryptocoin)


## LICENSE [MIT](LICENSE)
